now turning to the war in Gaza Hamas
leader isma Han has accused Israel of
deliberately Starving gazans in the
territories North and said Hamas was
ready to continue to fight in a
televised speech Han also said the group
which is widely designated a terrorist
organization was showing flexibility in
negotiations with Israel H called on
Palestinians to March to the alaka mamos
in Jerusalem on the first day of Ramadan
next week Israel said it would allow
limited prayers there with security
restrictions there are concerns the call
could set the stage for possible CL
clashes Let's cross over now to RW
correspondent Tanya kma in Jerusalem is
mentioned that Hamas is quote flexible
in the ceasefire negotiations what does
he mean by
that well I think I mean you have to see
this obviously in the context of these
negotiations that are currently underway
between Israel Hamas
mediated by uh Qatar and Egypt and other
actors now flexibility this is uh what
we don't know exactly how flexible
Israel and Hamas are in certain when it
comes to certain sticking points there
is talk about you know the potential
ratio how many hostages will be released
for how many Palestinian prisoners that
are held in Israeli uh jails for example
there's talk about and of course all the
details are not yet really known there's
talk about that the first phase could
see the release of 40 Israeli hostages
that are still being held in Gaza by
Hamas in exchange for those Palestinian
prisoners but another sticking point has
been always uh that Hamas wants to see a
full withdrawal of Israeli forces from
Gaza and a full end or full stop to
hostilities an end to the war and this
has been described uh answer by prime
minister Benjamin net Netanyahu as
delusional as delusional demand so you
know it is still to see how flexible
both sides are and depending on what
sources you're looking at you could be
very close to deal or very far away now
let's talk about the military operation
still going on in Gaza what's the
current situation on the ground between
the Israel Defense Forces and
Hamas well I mean the war is going on
and uh you know throughout the Gaza
Strip there's every day every night
reported air strikes and fighting going
on uh also in Gaza City in in recent
days but the main focus was in the past
weeks on the south of course on KH Yunis
although the Israeli Army has said they
completing this and there is of course
now the looming threat uh by Israel to
also uh uh attack rafar this of course
is the Southernmost city in Gaza where
uh over 1.4 million people are sh
Sheltering they have been told in the
beginning of the war to move further
south now they're in the South and of
course uh there has been a lot of
criticism leveled by the international
uh Community uh in the wake of this
announcement to also uh have an
offensive uh on raar now Israel says
they have eliminated several battalions
uh of Hamas um there in some areas is
more urban Warfare uh still going on but
they need to go into rafar as they say
to eliminate four of the battalions and
to say as prime minister Netanyahu keeps
on saying uh to remove Hamas completely
from power now the world food program
says a quarter of gazans currently fac
starvation what are the current
prospects for the civilians trapped in
the South briefly if you
can well we've seen in the past two days
there have been uh uh humanitarian Aid
mainly medical supplies and food have
been uh dropped uh from Plains on the
southern uh mainly the coastal uh area
somewhere actually falling you could see
that on on F on on video falling into
the sea but they were mainly um destined
to go to reach uh the population in the
South and the center of Gaza but what's
the main concern for humanitarian uh uh
for uh humanitarian Aid organizations
and for the United Nations operating
there is actually Northern Gaza because
access is extremely difficult uh United
Nations have said that they haven't had
a convoy to Gaza since the end uh to the
northern part of Gaza since uh the end
of January and we heard in several
reports now being made by the world food
program but also by the office for the
coordination of humanitarian Affairs AA
saying that uh a quarter of the
population could be in in risk of uh
famine or starvation also saying that
especially for children under the age
age of uh uh two in Northern Gaza one
out of six children is in under threat
of severe malnutrition now Israel has
said they're letting in enough trucks
and Aid into uh Gaza uh but it's the
fault of the UN for not Distributing the
aid uh faster and better whereas the the
United Nations are saying there are all
kind of obstacles also inside you know
from the insecurity from the fighting
going on but also from looting also from
Desperate people wanting you know to get
to this humanitarian Aid and also the
high prices on the black market T and
Jerusalem thank
you